# Command line
> Magento has one command-line interface that performs both installation and configuration tasks: `<your Magento install dir>/bin/magento`

## settings for command line
* run command as the Magento file system owner.
* To run Magento commands from any directory,add `<your Magento install dir>/bin/magento` to your system `PATH`: `export PATH = $PATH:/var/www/html/magento/bin`

## commands
### Set the Magento mode
* Display current mode: `./magento deploy:mode:show`
* Change modes: `magento deploy:mode:set {mode} [-s|--skip-compilation]`
    * `mode` is required,it can be either `developer` or `production`
    * `--skip-compilation` is an optional parameter you can use to skip code compilation when you change to production mode.
    * change to production mode: 
        * `magento deploy:mode:set production`
    * change to developer mode: 
        1. If you’re changing from production mode to developer mode, delete the contents of the var/generation and var/di directories: `rm -rf <your Magento install dir>/var/di/* <your Magento install dir>/var/generation/* `
        2. `magento deploy:mode:set developer`

### Enable or disable module
#### Enable your Magento environment:

1. Disable the cache under `System->Cache Management`.
2. Enter the following at the command line:
	* `./magento module:enable --clear-static-content Component_Name`: Component_Name is the name of your component.
	* `./magento setup:upgrade`
3. Check under `Store->Configuration->Advanced->Advanced` that the component is present.
#### Disable a component
To disable a component,enter the following at the command line:

`./magento module:disable --clear-static-content Component_Name`


### Code compilation
* `magento setup:di:compile`: Implies one website and store.
* `magento setup:di:compile-multi-tenant`: Implies more than one independent Magento applicaion.

### Clean up `var/` directory
* `rm -rf .../var/generation/*`: delete individual(个别的) directories.
* `magento setup:upgrade`: updates the Magento database schema and data. Clear `var/di/` and `var/generation` directories.
* `magento setup:di:compile`: clear the `var/generation` directory.
* `magento setup:mode:set production`: changes the mode from the developer mode to the production mode and vice versa. clear `var/di`,`var/generation`,and `var/view_preprocessed` directories.
* `magento cache:clean {type}`: clean the `var/cache` and `var/page_cache` directories.
